When creating IAM policies that provide permissions to users and roles,
we want to follow the common security practice of granting least privilege
in order to grant only the permissions required to perform the necessary tasks.
Unfortunately, it is a very common practice to allow more permissions than
necessary for reasons such as convenience or not knowing what permissions are required.
Some of the noteworthy recent Cloud data breaches were partly related to users or roles,
which were compromised and then the attacker used
the overprivileged permissions to ultimately gain access to sensitive data.
Previously, we discussed best practices around securing IAM access for users or roles.
However, there will always be a risk that temporary credentials are compromised.
For that very reason,
it is critical to fine tune IAM policies to restrict and
limit at minimum what actions can be done,
what resources those actions can be invoked on,
which principal or who can execute the action,
and any additional conditions that are needed.
For example, requiring MFA to be enabled
or allowing calls from specific source IP addresses.